Hey, this is a demonstration of the Neaport service, which allows participants to donate
data for academic research at Aldo University.
It is run at portability.cs.alto.fi, which URL takes you to this front page.
So it specifically allows participants to download data that researchers have requested
from data portability APIs on third-party platforms, which they have access to under GDPR.
So participants access the service through a link provided by the researcher.
I will open one such link.
The researcher uses this API mentioned in the For Research section to create the link
and also to download any data.
So here is what a participant sees when they open the link.
First, they must review and accept terms of use for the service and the privacy notice.
Here we go.
And now they can authorize data access.
One thing they can also do if they have multiple donations for the same research project or
for different research projects, they can save a participant token, which they can then
use to return to the service and view their donations.
But also this single donation link works.
All right, so let's authorize data access.
This will authorize access to the specific data that the researchers are asking for.
So we will soon see what data exactly the researchers asked.
Verification is done.
And yes, let's continue.
So here is what the researchers have asked for.
Donating once is sufficient.
The intention is that the researchers get access to past data, so the service will
not fetch any data in the future, only once.
Okay, now I have multiple alerts about access on my phone, and the system has in fact gone
through.
So it says your data is being processed.
Please check back later.
It will take a decent amount of time for the data to in fact be processed on the server.
First it needs to be processed on Google's side and then downloaded to the server.
And then it will be processed and any extra data, including data that doesn't match the
time range specified in the study, will be deleted.
So only a subset of the data is kept and actually provided to the researchers.
Here I have an older donation link.
Here I have an older donation link.
And this is already in the processed status, so I can go and view my data.
I can select what type of data to view and select date range is the filter.
And now if I so decide, I can revoke the donation, which will immediately delete the data.
Now I in fact want to go to the original donation I just started, because in this case, well,
I can here demonstrate revoking the donation without deleting that example data I just showed.
So it asks if I want to actually permanently delete the donation data, and yes I do.
And there it goes.
Now trying to access the donation through this link, we'll just show that the donation
no longer exists.
And this data was never downloaded to the server, it will not be processed, it will
not be downloaded, but even if it was, it would be deleted from the server when the
revocation is requested.
So the researchers in this case no longer have access to the data, and in fact it was
never actually downloaded, so they never had any access to the data.
Thank you very much for watching this video, and I'll see you in the next one.
