Hi, this is a demonstration of the NIMPORT service.
It's a service that enables participants to donate their personal data from third-party platforms for academic research at Aldo University.
So this is run at Aldo at portability.cs.alto.fi, and well, that address takes you to this front page.
So using this service, participants can authorize the service to download their data and the researchers to download the data from the service.
They can review the data and they can also revoke access and delete the data from this service.
Okay, so a participant would get started by receiving a link from a researcher.
They sign up for a study and go through the consent forms and whichever other parts in the study there are,
and at some point they receive a link to this service from the researcher.
So I will open one such link, so it takes to donate and then a token.
The participant can also save a participant token if they have multiple donations that they want to access,
they don't want to save all the separate links.
But normally if you have only one donation or if you go through the process only once,
then you can simply go to review and accept terms.
So I will show that now.
There's links to the terms of service and privacy notice and a brief description.
We'll accept the terms and now I can authorize access.
So currently we are requesting access to this login kit and the user data from there.
This is only essentially to provide access to the portability API.
We are not actually storing any user account information from TikTok or from any other service.
But this is required of course to actually download the user data from the portability API.
You do need to sign in to provide the access.
Okay, so now we see the authorization system called back and the data is being processed.
We didn't in fact ask for any data because as I mentioned the portability API is not yet available.
First we need access to the login kit.
So we'll wait for a short moment and the process should be done very quickly.
Let's see, okay.
And now the user can view their own data.
I can view my data here.
This will now show test data since there is no actual data that we can download.
But you can see what types of data exist and you can filter by time.
The final thing you can do if you actually decide you don't want to provide that data to the researchers is revoke the donation.
This will prevent the researchers from downloading the data and it will in fact delete it from the service.
Okay.
And now if I try to access this same link, nothing will be found, the entire donation has been removed.
All right, so that is how the system works.
While the data existed, of course researchers can download it using the download API.
Thanks for your attention.
